Hello everyone, welcome. Today I am offering the Empowerment of the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Before we did this Empowerment, in the part of the ceremony, or the Empowerment itself,
to give the introduction of this Empowerment of the teachings.
The introduction is the Buddha. And of course, we all know the Buddha Shakyamuni quite well,
since we are practicing and following the teachings of the Buddha Shakyamuni.
But however, it is part of the lineage teaching instructions,
so I am going to give the brief introduction of the Buddha Shakyamuni.
And after that, then, I pass the Buddha.
Second, the lineage, how this teaching can be treated now, until now.
And the third is the meaning of the Empowerment.
This is not just the ceremony, but this is the second ceremony of the Vedayana teaching.
So therefore, again, what this means, the ceremony of the Empowerment.
So these three categories, from these three categories, will introduce,
and that will make the meaning and the importance of this whole ceremony, an Empowerment.
And first, I will talk about the Buddha.
And the Buddha, as we all know, is totally enlightened,
who came about two thousand six hundred years ago, in this world.
But however, again, how Buddha came in this world.
And there are three accounts, according to Buddhism.
The Hinayana account, or the basic Buddhism account, how Buddha came in this world.
And there is general Mahayana, and as well as also Theravada,
Vada account, and the Vedayana account, how Buddha came.
These are not just that somebody is interpreting how Buddha came in this world,
but Buddha Shakya Muni himself spoke in the teachings,
in the basic Buddha's teaching, his teachings of the Hinayana,
the Vinayana teachings, and the Sutra teachings, and the Vayayana teachings.
So in that light of his worlds, of the wisdom, the omniscience world,
and we follow, as in the old, the great Master followed them.
The first, I will talk really about how the general basic Buddhist schools
Buddha prepared in this world.
First, Buddha Shakya Muni himself said that he was only beings, as many of us.
That means we are heavily obscured with emotions.
Emotions and struggling in the samsara, as many of us, in the ups and downs,
all that swinging emotions, and all of that.
But however, everyone, again Buddha said,
every living being inherited such a unique, beautiful nature.
Natural, the natural, that Buddha name, as Buddha nature.
That Buddha nature is every living being has that nature.
No one is out of that nature.
Since we have this beautiful nature, therefore,
if we work for that nature to grow, to glorify that nature,
we all will become, Buddha Shakya Muni said, become the Buddha.
As himself, he was the role model.
Example, he was the hope to every living being.
And vision, the destination, goal, to achieve that realization.
That was the he said.
So in that case, in the Buddha's teaching said,
once upon a time, long time ago, he was king.
King, and his name was Odin, in that very world.
Odin, he was king, and he has beautiful elephant, white elephant.
White elephant that he loves so much.
And he asked to the elephant trainers, to please train this elephant.
And of course, trainer accepted very graciously,
he trained that elephant, perfectly, and become so gentle and peaceful.
And one day, the Buddha, who was Buddha, the term king,
King Odin told to his trainers, let's take our elephant,
go to the, explore the world, explore the world, so not world,
world or jungle, let's go to the jungles, food.
And he said, yes, great king, I will be prepared,
prepared whenever you are.
So as he prepared, they both ride this white beautiful trained elephant
and walking in the jungles.
Suddenly, in the teaching said, elephant started running.
Trainer tried to stop the elephant, couldn't stop.
And he walked, then he passed on and passed us.
And then trainer said, very great king, hold the branch.
Branch, this elephant cannot be stopped, hold the branch.
So they start holding the branch and let elephant go.
And then they both descended on the ground from the branch,
and king said, what is this?
I asked you to train the elephant, but it looks like you didn't train.
Why is this?
He said, oh, great king, I'm the only trainer of the body,
but not the mind.
What that means, king said, because I trained the body so well,
but mind, because this elephant is in the meeting season.
Meeting season, he smells the smell of the wild female elephant.
Therefore, he's running.
Then king said, how I can prove that?
He said, king, I will prove that after one week, about one week,
this elephant will return to the kingdom, actually.
He said, okay, I will watch.
And exactly the same time, around that time,
elephant very gently, humbly returned the kingdom.
He thought, wow, that's really true.
And that's not.
He trained the body, but he couldn't train the mind.
Then King Odin said, who is trainer of the mind?
He said, I'm not trainer of mind, but trainer of the mind is known as Buddha.
In that time, there is Buddha, Buddha.
And the moment he heard, King Odin heard the Buddha,
he immediately, his body becomes, what's it called, goosebumps.
Goosebumps came up, and it's so kind of inspiring,
the period of the name of the Buddha.
Then he contacted Buddha.
He thought, I'm going to train my mind, he decided.
That is the beginning of his journey, according to Theravada,
or the Vinaya teachings. I shouldn't say maybe Theravada.
But basic Buddhism said, that is the beginning of the Buddha.
And the teaching said, there is dhrva alone.
So one of the section of the Vinaya teaching said,
I understand Buddha is free from the negative emotions,
seeing the wild elephant's mind,
and seeing the difficulties of the sentient beings,
therefore, I'm going to develop both each other,
I'm going to train myself, my mind.
Ever since, then he began to walk,
continue to keep that, his courage,
his commitment, his inspiration, what he started,
kept life up to life, then he become Buddha.
That is the aspect of the Vinaya accounts.
Then in the Mahayana, in the general Buddha account,
Buddha is, I'm sure you heard this story,
but once upon a time, Buddha was born in Helremes,
and they were with a friend, they are trying to pull the chariot,
the chariot in Helremes, and the friend was so weak, couldn't pull,
but even he is so weak, the trainer or the, what's called that?
One who is behind the chariot, what's called that name?
The driver.
Driver, okay, driver.
Driver, and his agent, agent of the Helrem, of the driver,
got so upset to that person,
one who cannot keep up as the other person,
as the who was Buddha, keep up, and he beat him.
The agent, the driver, beat him with that.
Seeing that, Buddha thought, how he can beat him?
Beat him.
He's so weak, he cannot pull.
It's not something that he's not pulling,
but he's so weak, cannot pull the chariot.
Therefore, I wish I can pull, pull him too.
He started making more effort to pull him.
At that moment, then Buddha, in the teaching,
said his vision is changed, complete.
And that is the beginning of his,
the aspiration of wishing bodhicitta.
And when he developed that wishing bodhicitta,
and after that, he met again another great Buddha,
known as the same name as Buddha Shaktamuni himself.
This time, Buddha was named also, Buddha Shaktamuni.
He able to meet this with Buddha Shaktamuni,
and he developed actualizing bodhicitta.
So wishing bodhicitta, actualizing bodhicitta,
coming together, then he continued again,
keep the same, commit, correct,
and the confidence of the bodhicitta,
and practicing the six paramatas or the ten paramatas.
I will list the ten paramatas.
Of course, you all know that, basically, most of you.
And the fourth is generosity paramatas.
Second is morality paramatas.
Third is the passion for transcendental practices.
Fourth is joyful effort, transcendental practices.
And fifth is concentration for transcendental practices.
And fifth is the wisdom, transcendental practices.
Seventh is skill, means transcendental practices.
And eighth is the ability, transcendental practices.
And ninth is aspiration, or inspiration, transcendental practices.
And tenth is known as the primordial wisdom, transcendental practices.
So he completed all six or ten transcendental practices
within the period of the three countless years in the teaching set.
He continued on.
He kept the commitment, courage, and confidence,
exactly the same thing with the work of the bodhicitta.
That means this sixth or tenth paramata
is the tools and means to activating, growth,
and the deepening of the bodhicitta practices.
And bodhicitta, of course, you all know, is loving kindness, a compassion.
It's wisdom combined together.
That thinking of all the sentient beings, how to give them joy, peace, happiness,
and remove the suffering, the difficulties, and fulfill, they're all witches.
That is the bodhicitta.
With that intention, kept strongly in the core of the bodhisattva's heart,
he walked tirelessly with joyfully, not just the boring and the tiring,
but joyfully, courageously, joyfully, he walked for that bodhicitta
and through the ten paramatas and for three countless years.
And that after that are completely three countless years.
And then, bodhicitta enlightenment in the bodhgaya.
Gaya, and according to Berliner calendar,
it was yesterday, bodhicitta enlightenment.
That is how general Buddhism approaches.
And then in the Vedayana or the Vedayana approach,
bodhicitta is already enlightened.
It's long before we reach enlightenment in the bodhicitta.
Bodhicitta reaching enlightenment is merely display,
because bodhicitta enlightens the long before as dharmakaya.
Achieving the realization of dharmakaya, that view.
But through that, then he emanated three emanation bodies,
known as rupakayas, or known as sambhokaya and narmakayas.
That narmakaya, sambhokaya which is resided in the field of the woman topoku.
Akanishad known as the woman topoku, still he is living, residing Buddha.
From that sambhokaya, Buddha reflected his emanation to this world,
as known as the Buddha Shakti Muni.
But as the moon is shining so perfectly beautiful, clearly in the sky,
wherever there is, kasakam comes in the conditions of to reflect the moon,
will reflect to that point or that place.
Similarly, Buddha sambhokaya is residing in the topokava field of Akanishad.
But from that, through the compassion and loving kindness,
he emanated narmakayas as Buddha Shakti Muni in this world.
As Buddha was born and rich in enlightenment, all those he showed displayed,
to inspire, to encourage and follow us, that we all have hope and vision we can get in
enlightenment.
To show that once again.
Again, he showed all those two activities.
And then, when everything is completed, he merged it back to that source,
where he emanated the sambhokaya status.
So, that is the very generally, of course there is again in the Vedayana,
many different Vedayana levels of the Vedayana teaching,
but this is one of the levels of general Vedayana teachings.
So, he is living Buddha right now.
So, that is really about the Buddha.
Now, what is, again, Buddha is full of love and compassion.
What is Buddha?
Buddha is free from all the negativities, all the negative emotions,
and ego-cling, self-important, agreed, and nothing but true love, true compassion,
and compassion and love that don t have any borders.
Love all the living beings.
In the teaching, of course, it s renormal.
Buddha is prone to every living being.
This don t have to be introduced.
He is prone to all the sentient beings.
His love and compassion, all the sentient beings.
Not just the Buddha Chaka Muni, actually in the teaching,
said when you reach the Buddha, that means there is no boundaries of the egos,
no kind of blockage of the egos, no self-emotence, no negative emotions.
Therefore, you become the friend to everyone.
And your love and kindness and compassion is emanating into every direction
without blockage, blockage without any discriminations.
Shining that to everyone.
That is what the Buddha is.
And that is what we like to be achieved, like to become the universal friend,
universal role model of love and kindness and compassion, not just now,
but continue for all the living beings until everyone becomes the Buddha.
That is the long-lost goal in the region, what the Buddha says.
So that is what the Buddha Chaka Muni is.
He is the Buddha Chaka Muni.
When we read the life story of the Buddha Chaka Muni, how the Buddha was humble.
How humble he is.
And how simple he was.
How courageous he was.
How committed he was.
And how wise he was.
How to keep everything so perfectly, beautifully, and share everything.
Everyone is welcomed under his teachings.
No one is discriminated.
And no one is like high and low.
Everyone is equal in the reality level.
But what Buddha said.
There is no difference at all.
And we walked for our enlightenment.
We walked for our natures.
Truly, we all have the same opportunity, same goal,
same achievement that Buddha Chaka Muni himself did.
All in the Gora Pya Masambha, what Dara did.
Exactly the same thing.
That was what the Buddha is.
So therefore, today we connect with these great teachers.
Great teacher, the teacher to all the beings.
This is again one of the very, very special and beautifuls.
Beautifuls.
And that is really about the Buddha Chaka Munis.
And then this teaching, how this lineage comes from, obviously,
started from Buddha Chaka Munis.
Buddha Chaka, this is connected more to the Vedayana teachings.
Buddha is, of course, master of the old Nayana schools.
This teaching is connected to the Vedayana teachings.
Again, where this teaching comes from.
This is connected to the according to the schools of Dravid Buddhism.
It is connected to the Ano-Yoga Tantra, Three Ano-Tantra,
Maha-Yoga, Ano-Yoga, and Adi-Adi-Yoga Tantra.
This is connected within the Ano-Yoga teachings.
So therefore, this is then continued from the Buddha
to the old, to those great masters, to the Tibet.
And then this, again, in the Tibet,
there is an old, it's known as, almost Tibet, is Buddhist countries.
And there is four major schools.
And among those four schools,
and this lineage belongs to the Nyingma schools of the Dravid Buddhism,
as I think, whenever you all know that.
And the Nyingma schools of Dravid Buddhism
is then started with the great master of Dravid Buddhism.
That is the great master, again, Adi-Yoga Tantra Rakulas,
from these great masters, and then continued teaching.
Until now.
And the way the teaching is transmitted,
preserved, kept, integrated into the qualities in the Nyingma schools,
those are known as Kama lineage and Therma lineage,
two major lineage systems that, through that preserved teaching,
it is integrated into qualities.
Exactly as the Buddha spoke, exactly as Gaurabhama Samba taught,
and nothing deluded that, kept, integrated,
called authenticness, that lineage teaching.
And that is what lineage is.
It's not something started very recently, newly, that is not something that,
not deluded by the conceptions and the thoughts and egos,
and that mind is not experimental lineage teaching.
It is the teaching of the wisdom teaching, lineage teaching,
lineage of comparison, that work, so many living beings,
to bring enlightenment, to realization of their final goal.
That lineage teaching that we are connecting,
that lineage is continuing that, the teachings.
And this teaching, then again, continues to the great master,
such as Master Mohanur Mahesh.
Mohanur Mahesh was one of the great masters
and one of the great teachers in the Buddhist history,
or the Tibetan Buddhist history.
He was great tehtum, visionary, scholar, master, tankar,
and sadas, and great practitioners.
Practitioners.
And then, again, he gave these teachings.
As he gave these teachings,
and then he combined that with Asana yoga teachings,
and I received this lineage teaching from many great teachers,
but particularly from Keqing Parthisharo Mooji,
that many of us know that.
He gave these teachings so many times.
This is one of his dearest practices,
practices of teachings.
From that teaching, as I received, I'm offering to you that.
And this is not just, I'm offering,
maybe you received this teaching before,
but this is one of our dearest practices.
We practice every, our centers practice.
This Buddhist practice becomes the principle practices
of our lineage, our Sangha members,
according to the direction of the Keqing Parthisharo Mooji.
We connect to the great master, teacher,
the source of all the teachings of the Buddhism.
That is so special, so important.
In the teaching said, everything of the Buddha Shakti Muni,
with the golden, his scholar, with love and kindness, complete.
In the teaching said, I'm great master,
often said, it brings calm, soothing, and peaceful, and gentle.
It will become more ourself, more ourself.
We see the value and importance of ourself.
And we see the also value and importance of others existing.
Therefore, respect and appreciation come so naturally, beautiful.
That's what really the Buddha is.
And then we are connected to the teaching.
And then also in the teachings by practice of the Buddha Shakti Muni,
it will increase our moralities.
It will become stable of the concentrators.
It will increase our wisdom, understand.
These are the three principles, the essential practice of all Buddhism,
no matter Hennayana, no matter Mahayana, no matter Vedayana.
These three are the principle practices of all Buddhism.
And that means morality, concentration, and wisdom.
Those are known as three trainings practices, three practices.
Those are the meaning of all the teachings.
Every teaching of the Mahayana or the three Bhaskar teachings,
the Vinaya, Suttara, and Abhidhana teachings, what that teaching tells?
That teaching tells the morality.
That teaching tells the concentration.
That teaching tells the wisdom teachings.
That is the practice.
We need morality.
We need concentration.
We need wisdom.
And we combine that three together, we will be the enlightened beings,
truly enlightened beings, as Buddha.
So practicing Buddha Shakti Muni in the teachings,
it will increase and deepen the three training practices.
Morality, concentration, and wisdom.
In the Tibetan teaching office, Suttara, Tengenji, and Hira,
this is so important.
This is not just important, that is the practice.
The whole practice is that.
This three training practice deals directly to our body,
directly to our speech, directly to our mind.
It takes care of everything in the brain.
In the larger view, it deals with form, sound, and space.
Everything.
So nothing is missing out of these three training practices.
By practicing Buddha Shakti Muni, it will bring the deeper,
and the strong, and the growth and the strength of these three training.
It's always a teaching set.
So that is basically about the lineage of how this is started.
That teaching.